Setup: The game is for 2-10 players, ages 7 and over. Every player starts with seven
cards, and they are dealt face down.
The rest of the cards are placed in a Draw Pile face down. Next to the pile a space 
should be designated for a Discard Pile.
The top card should be placed in the Discard Pile, and the game begins!
Game Play: The first player is normally the player to the left of the dealer 
(you can also choose the youngest player) and
gameplay usually follows a clockwise direction. Every player views his/her 
cards and tries to match the card in the Discard Pile.
You have to match either by the number, color, or the symbol/Action. 
For instance, if the Discard Pile has a red card that is 
an 8 you have to place either a red card or a card with an 8 on it. 
You can also play a Wild card (which can alter current color in play).
If the player has no matches or they choose not to play any of their 
cards even though they might have a match, they must draw a
card from the Draw pile. If that card can be played, play it. Otherwise, 
the game moves on to the next person in turn. You can 
also play a Wild card, or a Wild Draw Four card on your turn.
Note: If the first card turned up from the Draw Pile (to form the Discard Pile) 
is an Action card, the Action from that card
applies and must be carried out. The exceptions are if the Wild or Wild Draw Four
cards are turned up, in which case - Return
them to the Draw Pile, shuffle them, and turn over a new card. At any time, 
if the Draw Pile becomes depleted and no one has
yet won the round, take the Discard Pile, shuffle it, and turn it over to regenerate a new Draw Pile.
There are two different ways to play regarding drawing new cards. 
The Official Uno Rules states that after a card is drawn 
the player can discard it if it is a match, or if not, play passes on 
to the next player. The other type is where players
continue to draw cards until they have a match, even if it is 10 times
The game continues until a player has one card left.
The moment a player has just one card they must yell "UNO!"
If they are caught not saying "Uno" by another player before any card 
has been played, the player must draw two new cards
Once a player has no cards remaining, the game round is over, points
 are scored, and the game begins over again. Normally,
veryone tries to be the first one to achieve 500 points, but you can
also choose whatever points number to win the game, as long as everyone agrees to it

Game Play:  The first player is normally the player to the left of the dealer (you can also choose 
the youngest player) and gameplay usually follows a clockwise direction. Every player views his/her cards 
and tries to match the card in the Discard Pile
You have to match either by the number, color, or the symbol/Action. For instance, if the Discard Pile has a red card 
that is an 8 you have to place either a red card or a card with an 8 on it. You can also play a Wild card (which can alter current color in play
If the player has no matches or they choose not to play any of their cards even though they might have a match, they must draw a card from the Draw pile
If that card can be played, play it. Otherwise, the game moves on to the next person in turn. You can also play a Wild card, or a Wild Draw Four card on your turn
Note: If the first card turned up from the Draw Pile (to form the Discard Pile) is an Action card, the Action from that card applies and must be carried out
The exceptions are if the Wild or Wild Draw Four cards are turned up, in which case - Return them to the Draw Pile, shuffle them, and turn over a new card. At any time, if
the Draw Pile becomes depleted and no one has yet won the round, take the Discard Pile, shuffle it, and turn it over to regenerate a new Draw Pile

There are two different ways to play regarding drawing new cards. The Official Uno Rules states that after a card is drawn the player can discard it if it is a match, or if not, play passes on to the next player. 
The other type is where players continue to draw cards until they have a match, even if it is 10 times
The game continues until a player has one card left. The moment a player has just one card they must yell "UNO!". If they are caught not saying "Uno" by another player
before any card has been played, the player must draw two new cards. Once a player has no cards remaining, the game round is over, points are scored, and the game 
begins over again. Normally, everyone tries to be the first one to achieve 500 points, but you can also choose whatever points number to win the game, as long as everyone agrees to it

Action Cards:
Besides the number cards, there are several other cards that help mix up the game. These are called Action or Symbol cards"
Reverse 
If going clockwise, switch to counterclockwise or vice versa
Skip
When a player places this card, the next player has to skip their turn. If turned up at the beginning, the first player loses his/her turn
Draw Two Cards
When a person places this card, the next player will have to pick up two cards and forfeit his/her turn
Wild Card
This card represents all four colors, and can be placed on any card. The player has to state which color it will represent for the next player.
It can be played regardless of whether another card is available.

GOING OUT

A player who forgets to say UNO before his card touches the DISCARD pile, but "catches" himself before any other player catches him, is safe and is not subject to the penalty.

You may not catch a player for failure to say UNO until his second to last card touches the DISCARD pile. Also, you may not catch a player for failure to say UNO after thenext player begins his turn. "Beginning a turn" is defined as either drawing a card from the DRAW pile or drawing a card from your hand to play.

If the last card played in a hand is a Draw Two or Wild Draw Four card, the next player must draw the two or four cards. These cards are counted when points are totaled.

If no one is out of cards by the time the DRAW pile is depleted, reshuffle and continue play.

SCORING

When a player is out of cards, he gets points for cards left in opponent's hands as follows:

All cards through 9 Face value
Draw2 2O points
Reverse 20 points
Skip 20 points
Wild 50 points
Wild Draw 4 50 points

The WINNER is the first player to reach 500 points. However, the game may be scored by keeping a running total of points each player is caught with at the end of each hand. When one player reaches 500 points, the player with the lowest points is the winner.

RENEGING

A player may choose not to play a playable card from his hand. If so, the player must draw a card from the DRAW pile. If playable, that card can be played, but the player may not play a card from his hand after the draw.

WHAT WOULD A GAME BE WITHOUT PENALTIES

If a player makes a card suggestion to another player, he must draw 4 cards.

If a player plays a Wild Draw 4 card illegally and gets caught, he must first show his hand to the player who challenged. If guilty, he must draw 4 cards. If not guilty, the challenger must draw 2 cards in addition to the 4.

The challenge only canbe made by the person required to draw the four cards.

TWO-HANDED PLAY, PARTNERS AND MULTI-TABLE TOURNAMENTS:

Rules for Two Players- Play UNO with two players with the following

Special Rules:

1. Playing a Reverse card acts like a Skip. The player who plays the Reverse may immediately play another card.

2. The person playing a Skip card may immediately play another card.

3. When a Draw Two card is played and your opponent has drawn two cards, the play is back to you. The same principle applies to the Wild Draw Four card. Regular UNO rules apply in all other instances.

Partners- Four Players- Sit across from your partner. When either partner goes out, the hand is over. Total all of the points in both opposing partner's hands and score for winning team.

Variation-With four players, play four hands with each of the other three players as your partner (a total of 12 hands). Each player keeps track of his points scored in each partnership. Play several rounds, with the person scoring the highest number of points declared the winner.

With eight players, play two separate games at two tables, with each player having every other player as a partner for four hands each (a total of 28 hands). Score as above.

4-6-8-10 Players- If several couples wish to play "UNO," seat them alternately, one man, one woman, etc., and play the men versus the women. Once a man or woman goes out, all teammates throw in their cards and the opposing team totals the points in all of their hands. First team to accumulate 500 points is the winner.

Challenge UNO- This game is scored by keeping a running total of what each player is caught with in his hand. As each player reaches a designated amount, we suggest 500, he is eliminated from the game. When only two players are left in the game, they play head to head. When a player reaches or exceeds the amount designated, he loses. The winner of that final hand is declared the winning player of the game. (See special rules for two-handed UNO). THE MAKERS OF UNO FIND THIS VARIATION THE MOST CHALLENGING WAYTO PLAY.


